 You're listening to TED Talks Daily, where we bring you new ideas to spark your curiosity every day. I'm your host, Elise Hugh. You're about to hear the sounds of several different creatures, but from the voice of one single music producer. In her 2024 performance slash talk, singer Snow Raven treats us to a spiritual experience which asks us to pay closer attention and listen to the rich worlds we share with nature. It's coming up after the break. And now our TED Talk of the day. This is the way indigenous Saha people greet one another. This phrase has no exact English translation, but it means I greet the universe in your person. My name is Snow Raven, and I'm from the Republic of Sakha-Yakutia in Arctic Siberia, the most cold, settled place on earth where winter's temperature can drop as low as negative 96 Fahrenheit. So, after six years being away from Sakha-Yakutia, I returned this summer to see my family and also visit our ancestral home. The first thing I did when I arrived was drop into silence and listening. Listening is one of the powerful gifts the universe has given humans to connect with nature. It is by listening that I have learned how to mimic nature. I listen with my imagination and become an animal that I hear. I move like it moves. I seek what it seeks. I cry with its cry. The owl, for instance, it has night vision. It can see all around him, and it also flies without making a sound. It is the owl, and it is the owl. The owl, for instance, is the owl. I hear the owl. I hear the loon. I feel its longing for its partner alongside its love of the baby. It carries. The crane, the dance of this beautiful bird is so stunning and divine that Sakha people believe that the happy are the eyes who even once witnessed the dance of a crane. The owl, the wildness. The brown bear. It's so mighty and it terrifies everything all around him. While even he eats, but little berries. The rangers, Tabba, are lords of tundra. And they run thousands of miles in huge herds. To restore and recover their energy, they have a special breath. B'rangers, Tabba, are lords of tundra. I can hear the loneliness of the hunter and its yearning for the freedom beyond the body. In a wolf's cry, I can hear the loneliness of the hunter and its yearning for the freedom beyond the body. It sees the moon and wants to join it in the sky. And now, back to the episode. So the superpower of listening is that it leaves the room for imagination to dance with a sound. Let's listen, ignite our imagination, and summon our animal superpowers here and now. Let's listen. Let's listen. Let's listen. Let's listen. Let's listen. Let's listen. Let's listen. Let's listen. Let's listen. Let's listen. Let's listen. Let's listen. Let's listen. Let's listen. Let's listen. Let's listen. Let's listen. Let's listen. Oh, my God. Oh, my God. Oh, my God. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Looking for a fun challenge to share with your friends and family? TED now has games designed to keep your mind sharp while having fun. Visit TED.com slash games to explore the joy and wonder of TED games. That was Snow Raven at TED Next 2024. If you're curious about TED's curation, find out more at TED.com slash curation guidelines. And that's it for today. TED Talks Daily is part of the TED Audio Collective. This episode was produced and edited by our team, Martha Estefanos, Oliver Friedman, Brian Green, Autumn Thompson, and Alejandra Salazar. It was mixed by Christopher Faze Bogan. Additional support from Emma Taubner and Daniela Balarezo. I'm Elise Hu. I'll be back tomorrow with a fresh idea for your feet. Thanks for listening. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you.