 You're listening to TED Talks Daily, where we bring you new ideas and conversations to spark your curiosity every day. I'm your host, Elise Hu. We have a really special episode to share with you today. It's a performance and talk from cellist, composer, and TED fellow, Joshua Roman. Research shows that more than 400 million people worldwide have suffered from long COVID, a chronic condition with over 200 symptoms that can occur after a COVID infection. Joshua is one of those people. While performing pieces by Johann Sebastian Bach, along with an original solo composition, Joshua shares a deeply personal story, how due to a severe case of long COVID, he almost lost his ability to play the cello. His performance and story are a testament to perseverance, human resilience, and the genuine power that music has to bring us together. Joshua reminds us how important it is to focus on connection over perfection. Coming up. Joshua présme china discord ¶¶ ¶¶ ¶¶ ¶¶ ¶¶ ¶¶ ¶¶ ¶¶ ¶¶ ¶¶ ¶¶ ¶¶ ¶¶ ¶¶ ¶¶ ¶¶ ¶¶ ¶¶ ¶¶ ¶¶ ¶¶ ¶¶ Roman, and that's how a cellist says hello. It's the prelude from the first suite for solo cello by Johann Sebastian Bach, and one of the pieces of music I've performed most in my life. It brings me so much joy every time I play it, and it's important to me tonight to start this very personal set with something I've loved as long as I can remember. Three years ago, I was facing the possibility of never playing this beautiful music again. In January of 21, I caught COVID, and unfortunately, I never fully recovered. I could tell something was wrong when I continued struggling to read, even after my initial infection. Sometimes even basic sentences wouldn't make sense. A few weeks later, I was returning from the trip I'd been on when I got sick, and when I arrived home, the simple act of walking up the stairs to my bedroom completely laid me out. I only made it halfway before falling to the floor on the landing, unable to continue or even to lift myself to a sitting position. I was there for half an hour, frustrated and crying. Turns out, I have long COVID, which causes a host of conditions and symptoms that can vary from patient to patient. To this day, I experience dysautonomia, a condition that affects the nervous system's ability to properly regulate the body's reaction to things like temperature changes, walking, or really any exertion. I also take medication daily to keep my heart rate from randomly skyrocketing to 200, and to steady the trembling that's there sometimes even when I wake up in the morning. Of course, I have brain fog, lovely catch-all term. In my case, it specifically refers to the difficulty I have processing information, which has really diminished my capacity for things like reading, any layered thinking, and forced me to stop driving completely due to the cognitive shutdown that occurs. This is all on top of the crushing physical fatigue that I carry each day, something that is very hard to get used to, especially for someone who was pretty proud of his under six-minute mile before catching COVID. Adjusting to this new reality hasn't been particularly graceful. After brute forcing my way through two very important performances, I crashed hard. With nothing ahead on the calendar, I abandoned the daily practice routine that I've been cultivating for over 30 years, which would often last many hours. I put my cello in its case, and I left it there. Doubts that had been lurking for years came to the surface. I'd been stuck in a gig mentality for much of my career, waiting for the phone to ring, afraid to say no to any opportunity, and completely unaware of the exhaustion that ran through my body and spirit. Doubts that I've always wanted to feel like what I do matters. But after decades of ambitious efforts to play every note in tune, make every phrase clear and powerful, I was having trouble seeing that possibility through my fatigue. Doubts that I had to feel like I was having trouble seeing that possibility. With the difficulty I had even lifting the bow, let alone putting in a decent practice session, I lost hope that it mattered. Doubts that I had to feel like I didn't feel like that transition, I had to feel like I was jumping to the glass. Doubts that it was aцевisive. It was almost three months of dark soul-searching before I finally literally dusted off the case and pulled out my cello again. A friend of mine had asked me to play for her summer solstice party, and I reluctantly agreed, though I didn't feel emotionally ready. ready. I waited until the last minute, the day before the party, to see if my fingers still knew what to do. When I began to play those first notes, the ones that I've played for you just now, I was overcome with emotion, feeling the sheer physicality of making sound. Even though I was out of shape, the power of the cello's vibrations moved me to tears. I've known this sensation as a familiar friend since I was three years old. But I realized that somewhere along the way, I had stopped fully appreciating the connection long before COVID. I'd become so focused on the idea that my career was about giving to others that I had completely lost sight of my own need for nourishment and connection through music. When I decided to write a piece for this project, I was nervous. I wanted to capture all of the meaning, all of the pain, all of the lessons I'd been learning. This piece was going to say everything. We all know that's not how it works. Of course, I gave myself writer's block. So I started improvising to get the creative juices flowing. And though it was fun, I wasn't finding that epic piece I was looking for. Eventually, I relaxed the process completely and gave myself permission to truly follow rather than dictate the sound. It didn't hurt that I was pretty close to the deadline. And very quickly, those fun improv sessions evolved into one of the most unabashedly joyful compositions I've ever written. I couldn't force myself to write the piece that I wanted. But when I let go and just played, I came away with the piece that I needed. I gave it the same name I've given my project. Here it is, Immunity. Immunity. Immunity. Immunity. Immunity. Immunity. Immunity. Immunity. Immunity. Immunity. Immunity. Immunity. Immunity. Immunity. Immunity. Immunity. Immunity. Immunity. Immunity. Immunity. Immunity. Immunity. Immunity. Immunity. Immunity. ¶¶ ¶¶ ¶¶ ¶¶ ¶¶ ¶¶ ¶¶ ¶¶ ¶¶ ¶¶ ¶¶ ¶¶ ¶¶ ¶¶ ¶¶ ¶¶ ¶¶ ¶¶ ¶¶ ¶¶ ¶¶ ¶¶ ¶¶ ¶¶ ¶¶ ¶¶ ¶¶ ¶¶ ¶¶ ¶¶ ¶¶ ¶¶ ¶¶ ¶¶ ¶¶ ¶¶ ¶¶ ¶¶ ¶¶ ¶¶ ¶¶ ¶¶ ¶¶ ¶¶ ¶¶ new limitations, new challenges, new realities. Long COVID is now considered a chronic condition, and I count myself lucky that with help from Mount Sinai's Long COVID Recovery Program, I'm learning how to better manage symptoms. But in a very real and measurable way, I am not who I was before I caught COVID, and it's unlikely that I'll ever be the same again. So, here we are. Rather than hide my struggle, I've decided to do the hard work of changing deeply ingrained habits and letting go of my attachment to an identity that prioritized perfection over connection. It took this debilitating condition for me to confront myself and embrace a perspective that allows me not only to give, but to receive the gift of music. I'm committed to this path. I'm committed to sharing the vulnerability that takes me out of my comfort zone, and that makes music an art not of perfection, but of humanity. Thank you. That was Joshua Roman at TED 2024. If you're curious about TED's curation, find out more at ted.com slash curation guidelines. And that's it for today's show. TED Talks Daily is part of the TED Audio Collective. This episode was produced and edited by our team, Martha Estefanos, Oliver Friedman, Brian Green, Lucy Little, Alejandra Salazar, and Tonsika Sarmanivon. It was mixed by Christopher Fazey-Bogan. Additional support from Emma Taubner and Daniela Ballarezzo. I'm Elise Hugh. I'll be back tomorrow with a fresh idea for your feed. Thanks for listening. Thank you.