 You're listening to TED Talks Daily, where we bring you new ideas to spark your curiosity every day. I'm your host, Elise Hu. When I was first starting out in journalism, I remember an editor telling me, don't let perfect be the enemy of good. That is, sometimes you have to stop tinkering and ship a product or release the story in order to get it out on deadline. Video creator John Yushai battled perfectionism when it came to his online creations. And in his 2024 talk, he shed light on how he overcame it to create an authentic online presence and build community. Stick around after the talk for a conversation offstage between John and me, where we go deeper into the rise of the creator economy and how all of us can get involved. I have a confession. As a YouTuber, I make videos for a living. Yet I still get severe anxiety every time I go to hit the upload button to post my next video. I finish my video and I go to save it as final. But then I noticed that I could trim off a few parts of it and make it even better. So I resave that file as final underscore final. But then I'm like, wait, wait, wait, I can make the audio a bit better. I can make the color more saturated. Let me resave it as final, but actually. And then I repeat this process 29 more times until I save 29 more versions of that same damn video. Until sometimes I honestly still don't upload it because it's still not good enough. My obsession with perfection got so bad that in my first year on YouTube, I only uploaded six videos. But hey, as they say, quality over quantity, right? What started to bring me out of my spiral was something I remember during my eight years working at YouTube and Instagram, where I met many creators and artists before trying to become one myself. And specifically one person who completely changed my perspective on how creativity actually works. And that one person is none other than the one and only James Corden. Yeah, the guy from Cats. You see, James did something so profound and different with his late night show and YouTube channel that he often doesn't get enough credit for it. For years, late night hosts had primarily structured their shows around two formats, two segments, monologues and interviews. But Corden came along and he's like, you know what? I'm going to experiment with 109 different formats from Carpool Karaoke to Crosswalk Musical to Riff Off to the point where he uploaded a staggering 5,700 videos. And he soon surpassed nearly all the other late night shows in subscribers, despite starting from way behind. And while many of us may remember Corden for his popular formats like Carpool Karaoke, which has now totaled over 1 billion views, we don't even talk about and forget about the many, many flops he's had, like formats like musical shares. An actual format where he played musical shares with Cher impersonators. That happened. And all of this got me thinking that maybe I should be creating more like Corden. Maybe I should be prioritizing publishing my work instead of just perfecting it because you never know what will take off. And then it really hit home when I started seeing this trend across different artists, innovators and entrepreneurs throughout time. And I came across perhaps the biggest badass in history. Wolfgang Amadeus, I'm going to kick everybody's ass, Mozart. Because Mozart wasn't the masterpiece making machine that history makes him seem to be, no. Some of his early critics called his music far too noisy. But Wolfie just brushed that dirt off his shoulder and he proceeded to make over 600 compositions in his career before dying at age 35, which was far, far more than his peers who only averaged 150 compositions despite living way longer. That was Mozart's method. He was obsessed about quantity as much as quality. He was committed to creating countless compositions that we have now forgotten to get the just small handful of masterpieces we now remember. But let's talk about another example. How about the guy who created this creepy cyborg doll? He got a ton of public ridicule, but by the way, he's also the guy who invented 1,092 other inventions, including a little thing called the light bulb. So yeah, Thomas Edison didn't even have the best light bulb moments, yet he persisted past his imperfections and bad ideas too. Or how about Monet? The legendary artist, most people don't know that he created over 2,000 works of art in his career. But here's what crushes my soul about Monet, because that number should be way higher. You see, Monet was such a perfectionist that one time he worked on a set of paintings for over three years, until at the last moment when they were supposed to debut the paintings in Paris. He saw slight imperfections in the corners, so he took out a butcher knife and he slashed through every single painting he made, because it wasn't perfect enough for him. But curators and scholars today say that he destroyed over $3.4 million worth of art that night, just because it wasn't perfect enough. Which got me thinking, how many of us are too much like Monet instead of Mozart, Edison, or even Corden? How many of us slash our work at the last second instead of just shipping it? And how many of us have unknowingly left masterpieces on the floor because we got two in our heads? For me, it was only once I started shifting my mindset from Monet to Mozart that I saw a real change in my career as a creator. That after posting an embarrassing six videos in my first year, we went on to post 173 videos that got over 300 million views, and somehow our channel became one of the fastest growing on YouTube. And yes, we had tons of flops, even more than ever, but I now realize that cringing at your past work is proof of progress. And sometimes perfectionism is just procrastination in disguise. And a lot of our most popular videos were actually our most imperfect. We had videos with not the best coloring, not the best lighting, not the best audio. Some shots were blurry, yet they still got millions of views. So next time you're working on your next big idea, I beg of you, for the love of God, put down your knife. Be Mozart, not Monet. Every artist, every entrepreneur, anybody who's ever pushed envelope, even a millimeter, has experienced anxiety. You're going to have flops, you're going to have critics, but I hope no matter what, that you keep creating, you keep putting stuff out there, because the only thing worse than something imperfect is something that doesn't exist. Thank you very much. And now for the interview between John and myself after he gave his talk. Enjoy. And I'm delighted to have John Yushai with me now for a little extra conversation about the talk itself, the ideas and how you're feeling now that you're off the TED stage. So first, John, what was it like? Was it thrilling? Was it all that you hoped it would be? Oh, I feel like it's the closest I'll ever come to Coachella. Oh my gosh. Like it felt like it's the closest thing as like speakers, like creators, authors like we get, because it's just the production is next level. The guests in the audience are next level, the fellow speakers, like the entire TED team. So it was just a dream come true to be part of. And yeah, my heart rate is definitely more chill now than right before I went on stage, but it was memory of a lifetime. Yeah. Achievement unlocked. I love the line in your talk about how perfectionism can be procrastination in disguise. So I'd love for you to say a little bit more about that. You know, it's funny, Elise, I added that line a few days before. Hmm. So I was like, that's the one that I found really compelling. And people will come up to me afterwards. And I was just like trying to think out because I love alliteration. And I was trying to think about, okay, you know, most people like don't think about perfectionism as procrastination. But really, I was trying to think about who is perfectionism for at some point? Is it for us, the artists and the creators? Is it really for the audience? And as I think about it, after a certain point, it's really to make ourselves feel better as much as we may not want to say it. And I started thinking back through every silly little edit I had in that final like 5% of just trying to get it done. I'm like, okay, did the color change? Did that do more for me or for the audience? Did the sound change do more for me or for the audience? And so essentially, you're saying it's kind of an excuse to not get it done, not turn it in because or not ship as you describe it. Exactly. When it's there and we just have to put it out and like put our knife away, like the Monet example. I feel like, yeah, we slash it up. But in reality, it's like, okay, relax. It's good. Put it out there. Now that you have internalized this big idea in your talk and are a recovering perfectionist, what kind of advice do you have for the rest of us who might be struggling in this area? Yeah. That it's a constant struggle. It's like never a binary thing that you get on the other side and like, I'm Mozart now. I'm not Monet. I'm here to like put out my work and like, I'm never gonna like try to perfect it. It's a constant struggle. And I think that I needed that talk as much as it sounded like the people came up to me afterwards and the people who it resonated with because I have to remind myself constantly that like, this is good enough. Like this is 99% there. It's 95% there. And for most people, that's a hundred percent. And these final changes are just, you know, again, uh, maybe to make myself feel better, maybe to call my insecurity before I put something out into the world that's, you know, been in my heart and my head for so many months. And it's the first time people are seeing it with their eyes and judging it. So, um, it never becomes binary and never becomes a, okay, congrats, like unlocked. You're now, uh, a Mozart. It's like, okay, now you always have that inner Monet that you got to like quiet down. Any good enough projects or videos that you've shipped recently that you're particularly proud of now, but were really reluctant to put out at the time? The three that I shared in the, in the presentation, those were the ones that are like, especially the one that got 49 million views. And I looked back and I was like, oh my God, like there's blurry moments. And I think there's a conversation of content versus connection, you know, where the, the content may have not been like quote unquote, the highest quality in terms of like the media, you know, is a little bit blurry. Some moments audio is bad. Production value. Production value. Well said. But the connection and what that person was saying, what that video was for folks listening is that that video was me going on the street of Hollywood. And I had this interesting like realization where I was like, okay, who's more popular creators with social media followings or celebrities with massive traditional media following? And I compared like Tom Cruise and Mr. Beast or Logan Paul, Tom Hanks and a dude perfect in the Beatles. And there's definitely moments where people didn't know who the Beatles were or Tom Cruise was, or like Tom Hanks, but they knew who the creators were and vice versa. And so even though the footage was blurry, sometimes audio wasn't great. Like the message, the connection with the person talking got across and, you know, the 49 million views like speaks for itself. So I think those were examples that I have to remind myself of and like, okay, let's move on. Next one. What do you think the future has in store for the creator economy? Because that example, I think, really shows how much, especially for Gen Z, Gen Alpha, traditional media is really fading or doesn't have the same kind of clout that it did before or market share as it did before. So what does the future look like? Do you think? I think the future is going to have more professionals going into it. And like right now I see creators in like two buckets. They're entertainers and then there's educators. And the entertainers are like the Logan Pauls, the Mr. Beast, the Ryan Trahans, like people who put out content that really like captivate you. But I find for the folks who have like a really long career, can have a long career, it's not easier, but there'll be more of a middle class. There'll be more of an opportunity for folks who are educators. And a great example of this is this creator named Dr. Mike. He's a fully licensed practicing doctor, but he makes YouTube videos multiple times a week. And he talks about medicine. He kind of debunks myths that are out there. And this is him talking about his experience as a doctor while still practicing. You know, myself, I talk about like, you know, like the ups and downs of being a creator, what I'm learning is I'm going through it. It's a little bit more meta. But if you look at just about every other industry, like there's a channel called Dental Digest. He's a dentist. And he has over 20 million subscribers. There's a channel called Nile Red. He's a chemist. And he has millions of subscribers. Legal Eagle. He's a lawyer, but he has a YouTube channel. So I think more and more people who practice a profession and know how to create content, there'll be at least one for every industry, no matter how quote unquote boring that industry is. And yeah, I actually did a study where, do you remember this thing called YouTube Rewind? I don't know if at least you're- Yeah, yeah, yeah. I do. I do. Yeah. So for folks who are listening who may not remember it, it was essentially like 10 years ago, eight years ago or so, YouTube would bring the hundred top creators from all around the world. They would select them and put them in this big music video that get hundreds of millions of views. It's kind of like, hey, you made it. You're at the top of YouTube. And they stopped doing it because it's so hard to identify who the top 100 was. But I actually, for the past 10 years, I haven't really talked to people about this yet, but I'm working on this other video where it's like, what happened to those 100 people from 2014? What happened to them? Like, where did their careers go and what type of content were they making to cause them to either break out and sustain or go broke and become irrelevant? Right, right. The educators, the people who made educational content sustained more than the entertainers. And they just do a lot of other takeaways. Interesting. Well, we can't wait to see that. That does seem like a really great idea for you to take on. It's like a big meta story. Yeah, a lot there. Well, John, I appreciate the time. Thank you so much for stepping off the stage and letting us know kind of your reflections post-talk at TED Next. John Yushai, thank you so much. Thank you so much. Thank you so much for having me. That was John Yushai at TED Next 2024. If you're curious about TED's curation, find out more at TED.com slash curation guidelines. And that's it for today. TED Talks Daily is part of the TED Audio Collective. This episode was produced and edited by our team, Martha Estefanos, Oliver Friedman, Brian Green, Autumn Thompson, and Alejandra Salazar. It was mixed by Christopher Fazey-Bogan. Additional support from Emma Taubner and Daniela Balarezzo. I'm Elise Hugh. I'll be back tomorrow with a fresh idea for your feet. Thanks for listening.