 Hey, TED Talks Daily listeners, I'm Elise Hu. Today, we have an episode of another podcast from the TED Audio Collective, handpicked by us for you. This Valentine's weekend, maybe some science can help you feel the love a little more. This week, we're sharing an episode of How to Be a Better Human, featuring professor and psychologist Barbara Fredrickson. Known for her work on emotions and positive psychology, she shares how to expand our experience of love and friendship. While big gestures can be a lot of fun, she explains why it's actually the little things, the small gestures of attention and care that we experience together that really count and actually bring us closer together. If you want to hear more insights like this, listen to How to Be a Better Human wherever you get your podcasts and learn more about the TED Audio Collective at audiocollective.ted.com. You're listening to How to Be a Better Human. I'm your host, Chris Duffy. I love traditions. I love a ritual. I love a routine. I love a repeated action that I can count on. Some of my attempts at creating those traditions, though, have been complete busts. For example, every year on December 12th, when the date is 1-2-1-2, I try to create a holiday where you say everything twice, wear two items of each item of clothing, and generally just try and do everything double. I call it 1-2 day. And I have to say, this is without a doubt my wife's least favorite day of the year. Every year, she sees me walk into the kitchen wearing two hats, two pairs of sunglasses, and drinking from two glasses of water simultaneously. And every year she goes, oh God, not this again. So look, not every tradition is successful. Not every tradition is going to get buy-in from the other people who would have to participate in it. But the beautiful part when a tradition does work is that it's a way for you and the people around you to build memories and to deepen your connection to each other. Today's guest, Dr. Barbara Fredrickson, is an expert in positive psychology. And she's changed the way that I think about love and friendship, and how recognizing positive emotions helps cultivate those connections much more deeply. Barbara looks at what really creates those bonds between us. And her research has found that a single big dramatic day, a one-two day, if you will, might actually be far, far less important than the collection of tiny moments that we experience together along the way. Here's a clip from Barbara's TED Talk. I'm here to take love off this romantic pedestal and clear away the cupids and the cartoon hearts and help you see love from the perspective of science. When you really connect with another person, a beautifully choreographed biological dance is unfolding as your smiles, gestures, and postures come to mirror one another and come into sync. Your heart rhythms come into sync. Your biochemistry's come into sync. Even your neural firings come into sync. It's as if in that micro-moment, a single positive emotion is rolling across two brains and bodies at once, creating a momentary resonance of good feeling and goodwill between you. Now, what's more is that as you have more of these micro-moments of connection in your daily life, it changes you. It changes you for the better, not just socially and psychologically, but also physically. We're going to be right back with more from Barbara Fredrickson after a micro-moment of podcast ads. Don't go anywhere. Today, we're talking about positivity, love, friendship, and the science of human connection with Dr. Barbara Fredrickson. Hi, my name is Barbara Fredrickson. I'm a professor of psychology and neuroscience at the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill. So I would love to start at the beginning, which is how did you first get interested in psychology and then more specifically in positive psychology? Yeah, I have kind of superficial reasons for being interested in psychology. My big sister was a psychology major and there was a time because she was six years older than me that I just wanted to do everything she did. She didn't continue on in psychology, but I can credit her for that. And then I had an amazing mentor as an undergraduate who helped me see that my path in psychology would be best fit by being a researcher. I'm curious because you do get interviewed a fair amount and people cite your work a lot. What do you think people get wrong the most? Yeah, I think what people get wrong is they think that if positive emotions are valuable, they either think you should be feeling good all the time or that you should never feel bad, that negative emotions are somehow not valuable. All emotions are valuable when they fit the current circumstances that we're in and no emotion should be worn like a uniform, like a permanent veneer. I mean, emotions are about moments. And so having more moments that include positive emotions is great and healthy, but we shouldn't expect to be happy all the time. I've heard you talk a lot about both moments and micro moments. When we're thinking about these moments of emotions of all kinds, positive, negative, how do you think about them in your own life when a strong emotion rises? Yeah, well, I think probably the most more useful term, I think would be pleasant and unpleasant because you could say all emotions are positive in terms of the outcomes that they could produce if they're in the right circumstance and expressed in a healthy way. But I think one big difference is that there's such foundational asymmetries between feeling good and feeling bad. Negative things, we tend to get riveted by unpleasant things. And for our ancestors, those could have been threats to life and limb and the cost of ignoring them was very high. So negative experiences and negative emotions are absolutely riveting and attention grabbing. Positive things sometimes go under the radar because for our ancestors, it wasn't about life or limb, but rather opportunity. And the cost of missing an opportunity is not as big as missing a danger. And so they don't captivate our attention in the same way. The environment, modern day environment is kind of set up to capitalize on our, you know, can't take our eyes off of negativity. So it's easy to potentially consume way too much of it. And we need to, I think it's useful to kind of cultivate your eye for the positive things. So you don't miss the subtle positive emotions that potentially we could experience them regularly all day long. So if negative emotions are inevitable and we're kind of hardwired in some ways to pay attention to them, at what point do negative emotions become really detrimental to a person? Yeah, this is why I mentioned, you know, fit the circumstances. Because, you know, right at the moment where we're discovering we lost someone or something we really care about, sadness is absolutely the right, a fitting emotion. Sometimes it'll take people a while to get to the point where they feel like they can express their sadness, but it's fully appropriate for that situation. Now, if immobilizing sadness were to last for weeks and months, that's a little more concerning. Same would be true for anxiety and anger. You know, there are situations that are really completely appropriate for us to share our anger. But if we're angry all the time, in every circumstance, so there's an emotional wisdom that comes from fitting the emotion to the right circumstance. And people who are most resilient have the emotions that match the circumstances the best, and they don't linger on negative emotions too long. Say someone's listening to this and they're feeling like, oh, I'm maybe not in the, I'm not in the camp where it's fitting the way, or it's helpful anymore. What are some things that people can do? I mean, a very first step is realizing, you know, this isn't serving me anymore. And I think looking sometimes at what are the ways of patterns of thinking or assumptions that you've made that are fueling the continued sadness, continued anger. You know, am I seeing the world in black and white terms? Am I truly understanding the nuance here? How am I not letting this too shall pass unfold in my life? You know, that things change. And most often things can change for the better in terms of really significant pain, really significant losses. It might be a wave we need to ride, but it won't last forever. It's sort of recognizing that emotion is present, accepting that it's just, it's an important part of human experience, and then riding it out. That's one of the reasons why older people are happier than younger people. Older people tend to accept their emotions to a greater degree than younger people. So it's sort of one of the pieces of lessons of life from experience. You wrote a book called Positivity, and you are the director of the Positive Emotion and Psychophysiology Laboratory, which also, first of all, you had to have done some work to make sure that it was PEP. That wasn't just coincidental, because that's perfect. Yeah, actually, my graduate students are responsible for that. They really wanted to have the psychophysiology in there, and they're like, and it's PEP. It was excellent. That was the acronym. I think that there's sometimes positivity, especially, is something that culturally we kind of think of as like, oh, well, are you an optimist or a pessimist? Are you a positive person or a negative person? That's sort of like a fixed state. And it seems as though your work and your research are dedicated to the idea that that's not true, that we don't just have some sort of innate sense of positivity, and it can't really be changed. I mean, there are individual differences. Some people are a little more happy-go-lucky than others. But I think that it's important to recognize that, again, emotions are states. They're moments. They're things we can cultivate more frequently in our lives. And no matter where people are on that trait level of happy-go-lucky, you can always kind of increase the frequency of mild positive emotions. That's, you know, we don't have to be like the most intense high, or we don't have to have really prolonged positive states, but just frequent. Frequent and mild is what keeps us on the healthy side of emotional well-being and mental health. And, you know, the fact that emotions and positive emotions in particular are fleeting, they can last seconds or minutes. It seems like from some of the things that I've read about emotions and neuroscience and psychology these days that there's an increasing sense that the relationship between our brains and our bodies is a two-way street. So it's not like, like, you think about it as like, you get excited and then your heart starts beating faster. My understanding is that there's also some research that shows that, like, your heart starts beating faster, your brain then says, like, does that mean that I'm excited? And that it's kind of, it goes both ways, not just one way. Definitely goes both ways. Things like inflammation in the body, which is an early response to illness, kind of comes with its own emotional psychology that kind of gets you to pull away from, you know, being in community and kind of, you know, lay low or stay closer to connected to your inner circle only. You don't want to, like, you don't feel like going out and meeting new people when you're sick. There's research to show that if you experimentally create inflammation without illness, just the inflammation, that that makes people feel a little more depressed, a little more like they don't want to be with people they don't know. And it colors our emotional psychology. What's the body feeling like right now? What kind of situation am I in? And have I been in a situation like this before where this feeling goes with this circumstance? And we kind of knit those together. And so, yeah, there's definitely a two-way connection between body and brain. There are ways in which we can bring these lessons into our body, right? So we can do the work of like, okay, I'm going to, you know, I'm going to walk outside and I'm going to reach out to a friend, but also I can focus on some physical things I can do to actually change my emotional state. Yeah. get enough sleep, eat food that's going to keep you kind of steadily energized across the day as opposed to big spikes in energies and drops, regular physical activity or just going for a brisk walk. Those are all things that are really quite known to affect our mood and our outlook and our propensity to experience those mild positive emotions. We're going to take a quick break, but we'll be right back after these messages. Today on the show, we're talking with Dr. Barbara Fredrickson about her research on human connection and the science of what makes us feel loved and feel deep emotional ties to other people, whether they're friends or romantic partners. Here's another clip from Barbara's TED Talk. Love isn't just that lightning bolt experience that connects you to your soulmate. No less life-changing, it's also that simple, genuine smile that you can share with anybody all day long. Now, this isn't just some ivory tower exercise of remapping definitions. This has been a huge wake-up call for me personally. I've come to see that every interaction that I have all day long is an opportunity, but if I'm going to step into that opportunity, I need to step out of my head and away from my keyboard and take some risks, be open, be vulnerable. What I found is that the payoff for doing that is huge. Your TED Talk is about love and about broadening the definition of love. So we've been talking about these small, mild, positive emotions. Why is it important to you to label the small moments of connection as love as well, rather than just the big romantic, you know, proposals and marriages and stuff like that? Yeah, I think it's useful because culturally we all agree that love belongs on a pedestal, that we think of it as important. And I think that by drawing people's eye to the most elemental unit of love, the smallest unit of love, sort of positive connection between people is helpful in terms of helping you see where do those important relationships start? Or how does a feeling of feeling safe and at home in your community, where does that come from? How do we learn to trust people? The theorizing and research that my team and I've been doing points out that those moments of positive connection with others are where that feeling of feeling safe in your town, feeling trusting of another person. And so we don't have to exclusively take love as like this mysterious force that is a lightning bolt and brings people together. I think of it a little bit like comparing the sun to stars and we know they're the same thing but during the daytime we just don't see stars because the sun is so bright. And so I think that's what's happening with romantic love. It's just so big and important in people's lives that we are not seeing these other small sources of love and warmth and connection that are much more available. Who do you think of as a person who you love? Who falls in that circle? Because it sounds like it's quite a broad circle. Yeah, well certainly you know my family and close friends. I mean I have an inner circle of loved ones like anybody else strives to have and they're you know especially important to me but I really do feel like having done research in this area makes me much more likely to smile at somebody I pass by on the street or have a conversation with somebody in line next to me at the grocery store. I mean I am a really extreme introvert but I have learned to value these moments and I feel like my day is better because I've connected. Those are two really easy practical ways to put this into practice. What are some other ways that people can practically expand their circle of love? You know we all spend a long part of our day at work enriching the quality the emotional quality of our connections with people on our team at work is really important because you know sometimes we spend more time with our work colleagues than with our family and I think one way to increase that is you know be helpful help people do their job but also just connect with people on a human level like what did you do this weekend or what's the most important thing that you're looking forward to or you know just don't be all business realize that the work is going to be better it's going to be a contributor to people's well-being if we take time to connect human to human while we do work together it's it's interesting because just thinking about in my own experiences in offices or in work settings there was an office where people would often when they got in they would make their own breakfast in the little kitchen and there was this egg cooker thing that could cook six eggs at once and that just became like the thing where when the egg cooker alarm went off people would be in there and they'd be like oh are you going to take the last egg are we going to take the eggs and just it's just a silly small thing but I was like oh the people who eat eggs in the morning they are friends with each other because there's this little ritual around the weird dome that hard boiled eggs that became a thing where there's a connection and it's not because it was some sort of big meaningful moment where they said we're going to form a cult around hard boiled eggs it was just they had this shared moment that they had almost every day yeah it was a ritual I mean I think rituals are really important for giving us opportunities to connect you don't want to force the connection but one thing you can do is create a common kind of home base it's creating those places where our paths cross frequently so there's familiarity and you kind of show recognition of others decade by decade we're losing this because we tend to use our little screens to connect with our inner circle of loved ones no matter where they are and we don't look up from there to connect with people who happen to be where we are we are mammals we are creatures we are evolved to take in benefit from being in each other's presence virtual connection is a thin proxy you said it's a thin proxy tell me more about that we don't get all the same sorts of connections emotional connections going between people and a big part of that is that we cannot get the eye contact right you know right you know if we're on zoom we are kind of get the feeling of being looked at rather than making eye contact and I think that our creature brain takes that as like being monitored as opposed to being connected to and seen and another thing eye contact is really important for is emotion contagion that we're much more likely to understand at a deeper level more able to track the sincerity of people's emotional expressions when we're face-to-face and can make the eye contact right there's some research by social psychologist Paula Needenthal on this how when we make eye contact we're much more likely to mimic the smile when we mimic the smile where there's sort of a neural mimicry that informs our gut about what another person is feeling so that we get kind of cut off from that visceral feedback when we're not in person and people are much worse at picking up deception when we're not in person and they're better at it when they're in person and I would argue too that people are much better at collaborating to create these shared positive emotional states in person that when you're sending texts to your loved one with a little LOL or a laughing happy face how often are you really laughing and will they really laugh you don't you don't your laugh and their laugh don't have a chance to really build on one another and resonate that's what's missing when we're connecting virtually I mean people who are listening may not be aware of this but you and I are not in the same place right now right we are in different states thousands of miles apart and we are talking through our computers and so on the one hand I absolutely understand and agree and I mean just to give a specific example I have learned from doing a bunch of these interviews that if I look at your actual picture if I look at what the image of your face that is shown to me it actually looks like I'm looking down at my notes so instead I am forcing myself to look right at the camera which is kind of a surreal like performance where I'm like I'm trying to make eye contact but I'm actually looking into one dead mechanical eye but the flip side of that is I wouldn't be able to have this conversation with you if it weren't for the remote technology it would be a very different conversation or it wouldn't have happened at all yeah I mean some people would argue that it might be better if it's only audio because there isn't a misfire with the eye contact so I totally appreciate that you look at the camera eye and I'll try to do the same thing I'm not telling you that you have to make eye contact with your computer but even if you do that it's not eye contact it simulates eye contact a little bit what happens when we are physically face to face what happens to our bodies when we are connecting with someone else you know it's interesting how much our physiology comes into synchrony there's research to show that our you know having a conversation where you're closely following what the other person is saying and jumping in that it's not that the two individuals brain activity is kind of moving along in the same way we find that with physiology in terms of heart rate and sweat gland activity that there's much more likely to be a synchrony in reactivity especially when people are connecting over positive things sharing a positive emotion at the same time so it's really like the same emotion is rolling through two brains and bodies at once or you know maybe in a small group with others similarly we locate emotions within the boundaries of an individual more so than we should emotions I think transcend people and connect people as well you know in my professional life as a comedian when you see people in a crowd laugh it is not one person laughing that's so rare it is this communal laugh and that really does resonate right it's not like the idea that this is a communal experience I think often I think of that as like a performance you're having this communal experience even when it's not a performance when everyone's not directed towards a stage right driving along on a road trip with some friends and all of a sudden you all have the same like giddy out of control laughter over something that is not funny at all and that's just this shared experience that you can't even explain afterwards like that's a shared experience where it's not just one person's emotion it's extremely contagious but maybe that even the idea of contagion is wrong because it's actually contagion makes it sound like it's spreading yeah it's collaborative yeah I think of it as collaborative or co-experienced because contagion does still fit that model of it jumped from one person to the next yeah our our physiology is is really wired to connect in this way to really pick up emotional nuances and and see what they mean for us and also to build closeness when positivity any positive emotion is resonating between people in this warm caring way that's what I call this moment of love that the most elemental unit of love that it's not a different positive emotion but it's any positive emotion when it's shared or collaborative or co-experienced it makes me immediately think that it must be extremely important then who we allow into our circle of collaboration definitely there's a classic sociological study of of networks that shows that your friends friends happiness contributes to yours you know and that being in a network of friends or co-workers that have a lot of depression and negativity makes it more likely that you will also be experiencing something similar and the reverse is true for happiness that happiness is not just spreads but it's a collective phenomena it's not like we don't feel positive and negative emotions on our on our own but they're they hit us in a deeper way and they benefit us in a more significant way when they're collaborative and shared i'm sorry if this is a very basic question but you study this how do you study this what does your research actually look like there's a bunch of different ways that we look at the concept that i call positivity resonance which you know in my book love 2.0 is what i call love these moments or micro moments of positive connection one is by asking people to recall a recent in-person interaction with somebody and to reflect on what happened between you and another so instead of having a questionnaire that says oh did you like this person were you happy you reflect on was there a sense of mutual warmth between you did you feel in sync with the other person did you feel energized and uplifted in each other's company another way we look at it is we try to get more objective by looking at shared physiology is there a synchrony in biological responses is there a synchrony in nonverbal responses like people are nodding at the same time smiling at the same time leaning forward at the same time and then when we get people into the laboratory and videotape and interaction we can show them the videotape of that interaction later and ask them to rate moment by moment how positive or negative were you feeling during that interaction can you define positivity resonance what is positivity resonance yeah I do limit it to face to face from the data that we've gathered over the years but a moment of in-person connection that is characterized by a trio of three features shared or co-experienced positive affect positive emotion there's a pleasant sense in both people at the same time that there is a synchrony in caring nonverbal expression so smiling nodding leaning in that both people are engaged in the same tempo of warm gestures and we've talked about a couple different ways of things that people should do to make sure that they have more connection and more of these moments of love and social positive emotions what are some things that people should not do what are the mistakes that people make one mistake would be to oh synchrony is important maybe I should like model other people's gestures oh I was absolutely thinking that I should do that when you said it I was like okay I can just like do a little mirroring exercise yeah no I think that takes you out of the moment too much it puts your attention in the wrong place I think being curious about other people trying to figure out what oh this is a kind person I always want to connect with them and then realize oh I could be that kind person that other people want to connect to looking up from your phone screen something we don't do enough we kind of get really pulled into our tiny screens even in very public venues there's an opportunity cost you're missing connection with people around you and the hard thing is is that you know people misestimate how much they think other people don't want to talk to them there have been studies on talking to strangers that suggest that people anticipate that it's going to go badly I'm going to be awkward they're not going to want to talk to me and then when they actually do have that conversation they're like oh that went really well they really liked me and I don't I don't think it was so awkward at all what's the last moment of connection like that that you've had like today or this week what's the last one that you can remember most recently oh I mean I was teaching my big class this morning I have more than 300 students but I team teach it with a couple of colleagues and a number of you know teaching assistants and grad students and you know we're high fiving and giving each other like good to see you you know and even though we just saw each other a couple days ago our course is called health and happiness so you know it's kind of fun that I'm teaching it with people who really live it well Dr. Barbara Frederickson it has been an absolute pleasure talking to you thank you so much for making the time to be on the show yeah this has been fun thanks that is it for today's episode of how to be a better human thank you so much to today's guest Dr. Barbara Frederickson I am your host Chris Duffy and you can find more from me including my weekly newsletter and other projects at chrisduffycomedy.com how to be a better human is brought to you on the TED side by four strangers on a bus Ban Ban Chang Daniela Balarezzo Chloe Shasha Brooks and Joseph De Bruyne this episode was fact-checked by the eternally positive Julia Dickerson and Mateus Salas on the PRX side our show is put together by a team that high-fives even more than Dr. Frederickson's graduate students do I'm talking Morgan Flannery, Norgil, Patrick Grant and Jocelyn Gonzalez and of course thanks to you for listening to our show and making this whole thing possible if you are listening on Apple leave us a five-star rating and review and if you're listening on the Spotify app check out the discussion question that we've put up on mobile we would love to hear your thoughts regardless of where you're listening please send this to a friend share it with someone who you think would enjoy our show that is a huge way that we get out to new listeners we will be back next week with even more how to be a better human in the meantime thanks so much for listening you