 you're listening to TED Talks Daily, where we bring you new ideas to spark your curiosity every day. I'm your host, Elise Hu. Clean energy visionary Lei Zhang says clean energy is bringing about an age of possibility. In this talk, he brings us to the Gobi Desert, a massive desert that stretches across northern China and southern Mongolia, where one of the world's largest green hydrogen projects can be found. He shares how this and other barren landscapes hold more energy reserves than the world consumes today, and reminds us all to get a little more creative. Where others see emptiness, he sees abundance. Hey there. If you've ever felt your confidence slip at work, you're not alone. The good news, confidence isn't a fixed trait. It's a skill. And like any skill, you can build it with the right tools and practice. I'm Anne Morris, CEO and bestselling author. And together with my wife, Frances Fry, a professor at Harvard Business School, we host the TED podcast Fixable. This season, we're zeroing in on confidence, what it really is, how to strengthen it, and how to help others see you as the leader you already are. So if you're ready to show up with more conviction, to get promoted, to lead with clarity, to do the best work of your career, join us on Fixable wherever you get your podcasts. My favorite place is in the Mongolia Gobi Desert. It's most Mars-like in the planet. Barren and empty. Wind blows all year round. Sandstorms happens often. In the winter, temperature is as low as minus 40 degrees. In the summer, it reaches 40 degrees. It's useless. But it's my most favorite place. I come to Gobi with a belief. I believe this could be the new space for our civilization. When people see useless, barrenness, emptiness, I see abundance. Abundance. If you look at the barren desert, it is filled up with abundant renewable energy. The strong wind and shining sun. They are infinite and never-end. I found out the important equation between energy and our prosperity. 2,000 years before the Industrial Revolution, our global GDP only grew five times. Why? Because we are only able to use five times energy. Natural energy, agriculture then transferred to muscle power. 1,000 years before the Industrial Revolution. Since Industrial Revolution, our global GDP expanded 100 times. Because we are using 100 times more energy. So abundant fossil fuel energy has been turned and create forces to drive the machines. create materials like steel. Create fertilizer to improve the food production. Today, it's even creating tremendous intelligence for humanity. So, how can we unlock such a big potential from desert to push humanity to a next level of prosperity? Because when our solar radiation is able to meet our entire annual demand of energy, it is free and it is green. In front of Gobi, we have to solve three challenges. The first one, how can we capture the rough and the raw wind energy? Just as steam engine is able to turn coal energy into motion, we end up with wind turbines to capture wind energy to turn into electricity. Most importantly, is to really design the wind turbines to survive in extreme wind conditions in the desert. Secondly, how can we build avoiding to build a long distance or thousands of miles transmission lines, which is costly and extremely expensive? We end up with the largest off-grid renewable systems by integrating wind turbines to build a long distance. We end up with the largest off-grid renewable system by integrating wind turbines solar panels storage with AI orchestrations. Okay, then the last remaining challenge. How can we utilize such abundant locally made electricity? We end up with a solution to build net zero industrial park, which is going to produce energy intensive products like batteries and green hydrogen and ammonia. Those green molecules. Why green ammonia? One ton of green ammonia is able to hold 10,000 kilowatt hour electricity. Most importantly, the green molecule is so important for us to decarbonize our economic system. It's the most difficult, hard-to-obay segment. The green hydrogen is going to be used to make green steel, to make natural chemicals, to make green aviation and shipping. So, what about today? Just right in the heart of Gobi Desert, the first net zero industrial park has been built. It is totally off-grid. 100% renewable energy. It is making the state-of-the-art battery. But most importantly, it is the lowest cost of battery among all in region production base. Why? Because it's tremendous, free, abundant renewable energy. And we are also building in the desert the largest green hydrogen project in the world. 1.5 million ton green hydrogen and green ammonia. The first phase, 300,000 ton, is commissioning now. We are not supposed to build the largest. Our goal is to make the cheapest. To make green hydrogen as cheap as green. Why the cost is so vital? Because history told us this 100 times energy growth is a result of cost reductions. In order to unlock these tremendous renewables, we have to make renewable energy much lower than fossil fuel. There are two forms of energy. One is electron. One is a molecule. Today, renewable has already win the battle against electricity. So renewable energy is much lower than making electricity. But there's still another battle. It's green molecule. It's about two or three times expensive than gray molecule from coal and gas. We have to make as cheap as possible. We have to have this cost parity to the gray. So we should redesign the entire energy system. And redesign the equipment. Then reduce the cost significantly. So first, we designed AI-regulated wind turbine, which is able to capture more energy while reduce costs significantly. We are also designing the world's first hybrid energy storage system. By combining lithium battery with supercapacitor. It's able to support the grid with much less cost. And we are improving the efficiency of electrolyzer by innovating membranes and electrodes significantly. In order to make the construction work in the desert much easier, much cheaper, than the other. We designed modular, prefabricated hydrogen plant, which is made construction work in the desert is as easy as stacking Legos. And we are also developing AI physical model, starting from predicting weather, wind, and solar, to manage grid automatically. So today, we are already achieving the lowest cost of green hydrogen and green ammonia in the world. But there are still some gaps. I believe within three years, by 2028, we are able to make such cost parity to gray. Why I'm so convinced. Why I'm so convinced. Why I'm so convinced. If you look at last 20 years, the cost of wind and solar have been reduced 90%. For the last five years, the cost of energy storage has been reduced 90%. And today, the green electricity still be majority cost of green hydrogen. So by combining the significant improvement on the electrolyzer and hydrogen factory, we are for sure to achieve such a cost parity. By the time we are achieving cost parity to gray for molecules, it is going to be a milestone for our humanity. Because we are going to be a cost parity. Because we are going to remove the last bottleneck, which is preventing us to unlock tremendous renewable energy. It is the last bottleneck. It is going to open the gate to tremendous new possibilities. Just imagine. Now, as we repeated in the history, within the next 100 years, if we are able to use 100 times more energy, how the world will look like? We are going to harvest the superintelligence with AI data centers everywhere. We are going to desalinate seawater and turn the desert into green oases. We are going to be a cost of energy. We are going to remove poverty by producing our food and protein in the basement. We are going for sure to reverse climate crisis by taking carbon from the air and turning it into building materials. And we are even able to make interstellar traveling as a daily routine. So, where is the answer? The answer is just right in the heart of the desert. From Sahara in Africa to Middle East, from Australia to Gobi, there are 100 times energy than what we need. It's infinite, green, and free. It's up to our tech knowledge. So, ladies and gentlemen, this natural transition is not a costly burden for us. It is indeed the one and only pathway for us, for our humanity, to achieve a new great prosperity. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. It was mixed by Christopher Fazey-Bogan. Additional support from Emma Taubner and Daniela Ballarezzo. I'm Elise Hu. I'll be back tomorrow with a fresh idea for your feed. Thanks for listening. Scientists at Alphabet's moonshot factory tackle big, serious global problems. But their leader likes to show up on rollerblades, sometimes dressed as Gandalf. It's also my way of trying to disarm people and remind them humor and silliness are very close to the wellsprings of creativity. How Astro Teller leads scientists to their breakthroughs. That's next time on the TED Radio Hour podcast from NPR. Subscribe or listen to the TED Radio Hour wherever you get your podcasts. Thank you. traditional incredible interviews. Ord coefficient at sinks. I'm an una lifesaver. I'm a forest thatbefore y Damn! And he's got out of the Botswana. I'm an anterior end of the bot. I'm審i to be able to repeat that. I'm not is a Windsor.