 You're listening to TED Talks Daily, where we bring you new ideas to spark your curiosity every day. I'm your host, Elise Hu. For me, comedy is a necessary lens through which to look at the issues we're facing in the world. It's a place to laugh and sometimes cry laugh. In this hilarious and searing set from comedian and screenwriter Jenna Friedman, she asks us to consider the things that separate us from machines. And wonders, will we continue to get replaced by AI? Will we be replaced by robots? But maybe not the stand-up comics. I don't want to give too much away, so I'm just going to leave it there. And a heads up that today's talk contains mature content that may not be suitable for all audiences. Artificial intelligence is really changing my industry. That's partly what last year's writer's strike was about, putting limits on the use of AI as it pertains to TV and film. And if there's anyone in here under 25, TV and film are like TikTok, but you get paid for it. Thankfully, we won that strike. Yes, our win was as effective at protecting the careers of human writers from AI as pouring water on a laptop. The future for television writers is so bleak, it has inspired me to get back into stand-up. Which is why I'm here at TED. I have been told before that some of my stand-up comedy is like a TED Talk from mean people on the internet. But at least they didn't call me fat. Being a woman online is fun. A lot of my friends are really afraid of artificial intelligence right now. Sorry, a lot of my male friends are really afraid of AI. My female friends have other, more frivolous concerns like getting home safely. But my male friends are so scared of robots. And I get it. I've seen Ex Machina. If you haven't seen it, Ex Machina is a dystopian sci-fi horror movie about a sentient robot who has to flirt with her captor to escape her prison. Which is pretty much every woman's first job. How is that a horror movie? I wish I could have been a fly on the wall when the director pitched it. Was he just like, picture your worst nightmare. Your sex robot becomes conscious. And then decides she doesn't want to have sex with you. And all the men in the room are like, oh, the horror. No, that can happen. Take my money. We have to make sure that doesn't happen. That's how movies get made in Hollywood. So maybe AI won't be so bad for my industry. Regardless, you should feel lucky to see a person up here. Because in five years, it will be a robot. You're saying two? Cool. In two years, it'll be a robot. And you'll all be laughing at him. Yes, it'll be a male robot. Our female robot's funny. Not in two years. They're going to need another ten. That male robot, he'll be so funny to you. You'll be like, oh my God, he really gets me. Yeah, he does. Because he's data mining you. You might not like all of my content. But it's because I'm protecting your privacy. I'm not listening to your conversations when your phone is on airplane mode. I'm not trying to sell you stuff when you're at your most vulnerable. But that robot comic will be. And you won't even care. Because that's how parasocial relationships with celebrities work these days. Even when they're robots. He could get away with anything. That robot comic could be in a green room. Pulling out his plug. In front of non-consenting women. And you'd be like, wow. That's so lifelike. Here's a Grammy. Thanks. I censored that last bit so that you'll share this link with your kids. The theme of TED 2025 is humanity reimagined. Which sounds like a euphemism ChatGPT came up with for all of us being replaced by machines. I'm not a techno-pessimist. I'm just a person with a human brain. And I'm a little scared by how quickly AI is progressing. But Jenna, think of all the great things AI will do for humanity. It could lower carbon emissions by killing all the humans. Is that a joke? I don't know. I don't know. Some of the people in this room would know better than I do. Are the robots going to kill us? If you work in this space and you can't answer that with a definitive no, then maybe we should slow it down a notch. Take a few weeks off. Like a fired and then rehired federal employee underdoge. Either way, I'm not that worried about my stand-up comedy being replaced by AI. Because my stand-up comedy is not that profitable. Case in point, I've been doing this for over 15 years, and none of you know who I am. No machines are coming for my abortion jokes. And believe me, I've tried. Okay, so here's a conversation I had with ChatGPT. It's very brief. Don't worry. It only melted one iceberg. I say, hi, ChatGPT! Exclamation point. You've got to be nice to them because they're going to kill us. Can you write me an abortion joke? I aim to keep things lighthearted and respectful, blah, blah, blah. So no? Cool. I get that you are asking for something specific. It's fine. I'll just ask DeepSeek. And if anyone's curious, DeepSeek will totally write you an abortion joke. But only if it's a girl. As some of you may have gathered, I do have a lot of abortion jokes. The best thing about abortion jokes is that no one tries to steal them. They are like the unwanted children of jokes. In a sense, it's the abortion jokes that make us human. Metaphorically speaking, they don't even have to be jokes. They could just be our idiosyncrasies, our peccadillos and other SAT words. Our raw, authentic, unfiltered selves that might not always be likable, relatable or profitable. Those are the things that separate us from machines. For now. When all of our TED Talks get fed into machine learning algorithms, robots may evolve to understand why someone might say the word abortion in a talk, despite the fact that it could alienate 50 percent of people watching, even though it shouldn't because it's just health care. But until they do, these are the things we should be embracing and cultivating. As artificial intelligence evolves to get better at everything, it might just be our abortion jokes. Again, I'm just speaking metaphorically. It's a weird metaphor, but it's uniquely mine. It might just be our metaphorical abortion jokes that are all we have left. That said, in the near future, nobody in America will know what the word abortion means because it will be outlawed in all 50 states. I'm sorry, 51 states. I forgot to include Canada. I've now turned this TED Talk into a walking example of why TED is probably going to book a robot comedian instead of a human one as soon as they possibly can. Thank you so much. I'm Jenna Friedman. Have a good night. Thank you so much. Thank you so much. Thank you so much. Thank you so much. Thank you so much. Thank you so much. Thank you so much. Thank you so much. Thank you so much. Thank you so much. Thank you so much. That was Jenna Friedman speaking at TED 2025. If you're curious about TED's curation, find out more at TED.com slash curation guidelines. And that's it for today's show. TED Talks Daily is part of the TED Audio Collective. This episode was produced and edited by our team, Martha Estefanos, Oliver Friedman, Brian Green, Lucy Little, Alejandra Salazar, and Tonsika Sarmanivon. It was mixed by Christopher Fazey-Bogan. Additional support from Emma Taubner and Daniela Ballarezzo. I'm Elise Hu. I'll be back tomorrow with a fresh idea for your feed. Thanks for listening. Scientists at Alphabet's moonshot factory tackle big, serious global problems. But their leader likes to show up on rollerblades, sometimes dressed as Gandalf. It's also my way of trying to disarm people and remind them humor and silliness are very close to the wellsprings of creativity. How Astro Teller leads scientists to their breakthroughs. That's next time on the TED Radio Hour podcast from NPR. Subscribe or listen to the TED Radio Hour wherever you get your podcasts. I'll see you next time on the TED Radio Hour.