 you're listening to TED Talks Daily, where we bring you new ideas to spark your curiosity every day. I'm your host, Elise Hu. Learning from my own mistakes and reflecting on how I handle things in life has always been a huge part of my own growth. For business leader, Paul Ketchlove, the power of reflection is key to, well, just about everything. In his archive talk, he shares that through every career he's held, from priest to opera singer to senior management consultant, he's benefited from the habit of reflecting on what worked and what could be better next time. Coming up, how retrospectives can transform our careers and relationships. I wrote this journal entry in 2013. I've been sleeping restlessly for months. There's a constant feeling of tension in my body. I love ministry as a Catholic priest, the opportunity to share my faith with people and support them as we journey through life together. But I have a desire to share my life with another person. Listen, I knew in discerning ministry that celibacy, not getting married, was part of the package. But I don't know if I can do this any longer. I'm rarely alone, but I feel bitterly lonely. I wrote this when I was on the cusp of making one of the biggest and most significant decisions of my life, whether to leave ministry as a Catholic priest. I think my life has been a reasonably unique and unusual one. Now in my early 40s, I've had careers as an opera singer, a Catholic priest, a corporate lawyer, and now a management consultant. And when people hear the careers that I've had, the most common question I get asked, maybe the one that's on your mind, is what on earth is the connection amongst it all? Through all of these changes, through all of these careers, one constant has been present, the practice of reflection. Now people may think that reflection is something that happens in a dark private room, by candlelight or flashlight, to purge one's deepest, darkest secrets. But I want to bring this practice out of the dark and into the light. I want to share how this practice can help our everyday lives, and especially our work lives. I want to share how this practice helps to improve performance, to make better decisions, both big and small, and to build better relationships. Interestingly, in a 2020 survey of some 4,000 respondents conducted by BCG and BVA, the question was asked, what makes a good leader? What are their main qualities and skills? Notably, possessing a good capacity for reflection was listed as one of the top five skills. The others being empathy, listening, consideration, and team development. Reflection is about learning. It's about looking at the events of our lives without judgment, but with a critical lens. I really like the way leadership professors James Bailey and Scheherazade Remen describe it. It requires taking an honest moment to look at what transpired, what worked, what didn't, what can be done, and what can't. Reflection requires courage. It's thoughtful, and it's deliberate. So how do we do this, then? Let's take a look at sports. I grew up in Australia, and one of the most popular games played was cricket. Consistent high performance from batters, bowlers, and fielders is essential. But given it's a team sport, it's not just about how the team, the individual performs, but about how the team performs collectively together. Cricketers reflect during a game, after a game, and over time. During a game, they might think about a missed catch, or how they could bat or bowl better the next delivery. After a game, they might come together to watch video replays, to look at what worked and what didn't, which might differ from what they actually experienced during the game itself. And then over time, they might look to the patterns of their wins and losses to gleam even more meaningful conclusions and insights. The same process can and should be used in the workplace, and I don't think we need to watch video replays of our meetings to dissect what took place. I don't know about you, but that might feel kind of creepy. Reflection can be done through a variety of different formats. Purposeful thinking, written journal entries, audio notes, pictures, a discussion with a mentor or honest friend. The point is to find what works for you and to make a regular commitment. To examine the events and experiences of your lives, what worked, what didn't, and why. And then to think about what and how you would like to do things differently next time. When we practice reflection as a habit, we gain even more meaningful insight because we see patterns that reflection on standalone events doesn't provide. I truly think reflection can help everyone, people in every industry, at every stage of one's career, and in every point in one's life. Let me share with you an example that I think most people can connect with. Most of us have meetings. I was due for a daily catch-up with a colleague. He had just led a client meeting for the first time. It was to give a progress update on the work stream that he was responsible for in this project. He said to me that the meeting had gone terribly. He didn't get through the actions taken. He wasn't able to discuss the obstacles faced or the decisions required. He didn't get to the next steps or the responsible persons. He felt angst, uneasy, upset. He was concerned about what the client had thought of him and the meeting, but more importantly, what the client felt about the work that was going on in the work stream. It would have been so easy for him to have just pushed past this, to try and suppress the emotions, but that would have missed a massive opportunity. We took a few moments to think and objectively reflect over what took place and then to put in place some commitments as to what and how he could do things differently next time. He decided that in future, he would start each meeting with an agenda alignment to make sure there was clarity on what needed to be achieved. And then he'd resolve to make sure that he would take greater control over the meeting so that if topics came up beyond the scope of the agenda, that he'd note that a separate discussion should be had. Reflection helps to improve performance. Reflection helps to make better decisions. Imagine for a moment you've been in your current role for five years. It's a creative role, but you don't quite feel you've got that zing, that energy for it anymore. You've been offered another opportunity in the organization. It's actually a promotion. It's a more senior role. It's managerial. But you'll have responsibility for looking after 12 direct reports. A competitor's also recently reached out to you. They've offered you an opportunity for the same kind of role that you've got currently, but it pays a higher salary. There's a big difference between being a creative and being a manager. So what is it that really makes you happy? What is it that really makes you fulfilled? Reflection provides a treasure trove of data to help you work through this. Have your reflections mentioned being bored with projects, or do you just want to try something new? Would you like to be a manager? Would you like to see people grow and form and develop them? Do you think you could do a better job than your own manager? Reflection provides great insight. Reflection enables you to focus on what really matters and to make better choices. Let me share with you a final example. Most of us have relationships in our work. Bosses, customers, clients, suppliers, whomever. And I think most of us try to have good relationships with these people. If I'm honest, while I strive for this ambition, I haven't always succeeded. But reflection has helped me to build better relationships. A number of years ago, I was giving a feedback session with a colleague, and after having done so, I took a few moments to jot down some thoughts as to how it went. I realized I had been too clinical. In fact, if only you could have seen the expressions on my colleague's face. I'd raced through their various strengths and moved on to spending more time on their areas for development. If I'd really thought about this person, I would have spent far greater time actually on their strengths and actually emphasizing why they were such a valuable member of our organization, and then creating a space where they felt psychologically safe to be able to go on and explore these areas for development. Reflection has helped me to improve this and to build better relationships. So this might all sound a little fine and dandy and maybe obvious or trivial, but the truth is, so many of us don't take time out for regular reflection. This practice has helped me, and I am so grateful. After I left being a priest, I took some time out for reflection to think about who I was and what I wanted my life to be about. Reflection helped me to grapple with this, and it continues to help me today as I grapple with this and other topics. So as we end this day, or tomorrow before you begin the next, sit down, take a breath, and reflect, and you'll see the power that this habit brings to your life. Thank you. That was Paul Kachlove for TED at BCG. This talk was originally published in September 2022. If you're curious about TED's curation, find out more at TED.com Slash Curation Guidelines. And that's it for today's show. TED Talks Daily is part of the TED Audio Collective. This episode was produced and edited by our team, Martha Estefanos, Oliver Friedman, Brian Green, Lucy Little, Alejandra Salazar, and Tonsika Sarmanivon. It was mixed by Christopher Faze-Bogan. Additional support from Emma Taubner and Daniela Ballarezzo. I'm Elise Hu. I'll be back tomorrow with a fresh idea for your feed. Thanks for listening. Scientists at Alphabet's moonshot factory tackle big, serious global problems, but their leader likes to show up on rollerblades, sometimes dressed as Gandalf. It's also my way of trying to disarm people and remind them humor and silliness are very close to the wellsprings of creativity. How Astro Teller leads scientists to their breakthroughs. That's next time on the TED Radio Hour podcast from NPR. Subscribe or listen to the TED Radio Hour wherever you get your podcasts.