 you're listening to TED Talks Daily, where we bring you new ideas to spark your curiosity every day. I'm your host, Elise Hugh. Could the scientific study of proteins and protein design save the world? For computational biologist David Baker, the answer is yes. His belief in this led to his popular 2019 TED Talk, receiving funding from TED's Audacious Project and a Nobel Prize. He sat down with TED curator Whitney Pennington Rogers for a recent TED membership event to dig into how much the science of protein design has progressed in the last six years, the surprising problems his team is able to solve for, and why he continues to believe wholeheartedly that designing new proteins can save the world. Want to go deeper on the business topics that matter? This is the So What from BCG, and I'm your host, Georgie Frost. BCG experts explore the most pressing topics on the minds of the world's top business leaders. Listen wherever you get your podcasts. Hi, David. Great to be here. Thank you for being with us. And first, congratulations on the Nobel Prize. I know that all of us at TED were really elated to see your work celebrated and recognized in that major way. Yeah, and in fact, much of the work that I talked about in my Nobel Prize address was supported by the TED Audacious Project. So I'm grateful, very grateful to TED as well. I'm excited to be back here. It's definitely meaningful that TED could be part of your journey in that really important way and part of this important work. And we definitely want to get into all of that. But before we talk about the Nobel Prize and sort of where things have gone since 2019, when you joined us as a speaker and as an audacious grantee, I think it would be helpful to sort of set the stage with some background on your work, sort of detailing the science that was recognized here connected to proteins. So you've referred to proteins as the workhorses of all living things. You said in your talk, in fact, that almost everything that happens in biology happens because of proteins. They do everything from transporting nutrients to repairing damaged tissue to supporting our immune system. And your work, of course, has been focused around creating new proteins. Why has this been such a challenging thing for humanity to accomplish? Well, for many, many years, scientists studied the proteins that exist in nature. And they, I think they seemed almost like these sort of magical elfin runes passed down from, you know, billions of years of evolution. There was, they're really special. They're very different from anything that occurs in the outside of biology because they have these very precise properties. They have these exquisite functions. And so the notion that you could design new ones that would do new things was really quite foreign. And when people tried to do it, it was, it was very, it was very difficult. So it was both that they seemed almost unattainable and that the attempts that were made were not successful. And that even thinking about the methods for even how you would go about designing a protein with a new function didn't really exist. So, so I think there were, there were a number of reasons why it didn't happen, you know, a much longer time ago. And of course, the, the groundbreaking thing that you've done, the Nobel prize winning thing that you've done is, is using a computer program to design proteins from scratch. Can you talk about how exactly you did this? Yes. And in fact, there's been a very big transition between 2019 when I gave the Ted talk and today. So we began quite a few years ago to try to understand how the amino acid sequences of proteins determine their three-dimensional structures. And just as a little bit of, of, of background for, um, so everyone's on the same page, the genes in our genomes, each encode a protein. That's what they do. And the way they encode that protein is by specifying the sequence of amino acids in the protein. And once that sequence is known, then that specifies what the three-dimensional structure is. And so when I first began, um, at the university of Washington, we studied how proteins actually fold up from their amino acid sequences to their three-dimensional structures. And we studied, studied that experimentally. And as we began to learn more and more, we, um, we developed computer programs to, to mimic that process and to try to, to, to be able to go from, take a sequence and predict the structure. And then after we had been doing that for some time, uh, we realized that we could go backwards, not go from like in biology, from the sequence to the structure and the function of the protein, but instead start with a new structure and a new function that don't exist and work backwards towards them to an amino acid sequence that would encode that new protein. The difference is that in the biology case there, the proteins are encoded in the genes in our genomes and the genes of all living things. In the design case, it's a completely new protein. So it doesn't exist. There's no gene that exists. So we have to make a synthetic gene, a synthetic piece of DNA that encodes this new protein. Once we have that synthetic piece of DNA, we can put it into a bacterium and it will produce the protein. And we can see whether it actually does what we designed it to do. So the first class of models we developed were traditional physical models, where we sort of tried to describe all the interactions between all the atoms in the protein and, um, how those interactions guide the protein fold up. And we might make quite a bit of progress, which I described, some of which I briefly described in my 2019 talk. Now, since then we've completely switched over to developing AI based methods for protein design. And in these methods, we, um, we take the many, many examples of protein structures, which have, whose struck proteins, whose structures have been determined by scientists really over the last 50 years. And there are about 250,000 of these structures now. And so we can learn by training AI models on these structures. We can develop methods that actually will generate new proteins with new structures. And we can condition this process on the, on a specification of the function we want to create. So for example, with, and our methods are very similar to image generation methods. So whereas you might say, um, to Dolly or an image, image generation program, uh, generate an image of a giraffe walking on a horse or something absurd like that. And you would get an image, something like that, that represents that in the same way we can, specify to RF diffusion, the design protein program we have, uh, created. We can say, design a protein, protein, which binds to this virus and blocks it, or binds to this cancer cell and stops it from dividing. And the program will generate a new protein. And then we make it in the lab and see whether it actually does what we designed it to do. It's incredible. And it seems like there are seemingly endless applications for this. And in 2019, you shared a few of them, and I'd love to talk about, about those, um, that you shared in that talk, but also I'm really curious to know what excites you today when you think about applications for, for this. Yes. So many of the grand challenges that I described in my 2019 talk, we've, we've really made huge progress on and now gone beyond. Um, but I'll highlight one example. I spoke about vaccines and, um, during the pandemic, uh, my colleague, Neil King here at the Institute for Protein Design, actually developed a vaccine for COVID, which, um, is approved for use in humans. It's the first de novo design medicine, and he's well on his way to making advanced vaccines for many, um, different viruses, including influenza. Since 2019, we've gotten into, as, as the methods we've developed have become more powerful, we've expanded the range of applications quite a bit more broadly. Um, for example, sustainability is a new emphasis. So we're working on new proteins to break down plastic and other, other pollutants and polymers. We're working on new ways to fix carbon and remove, uh, methane from the atmosphere. And we're working on, uh, green chemistry approaches to enable the synthesis creation of molecules without using toxic solvents and, um, in much lower energy, uh, ways. So the, that the grand challenges seem very ambitious at the time, but as the methods have progressed and with all the brilliant people who have come here to work on solving them, we've actually been able to go well beyond now and tackle new problems as well. It's incredible. And it seems exciting to think about all the ways that this could improve life for, for really all of us in, in different ways. And, and you mentioned the sustainability work, which was something that you touched on very, very slightly in your 2019 talk. And it sounds like that's really ramped up, uh, since then, how did you begin to think about sustainability work as a potential use case for this? One of the advances that we've made since 2019 is in developing methods for, for designing proteins, which can make or break chemical bonds. This is something that happens in nature. There are many proteins which do this, which catalyze chemical reactions. And now that, um, we've, we've mastered that we can, that we can design proteins that will break bonds, problems like plastic degradation or breaking down other toxic compounds in the environment, uh, become really, they start to becoming things that can be approached. And it's particularly interesting with compounds that, that weren't present during evolution, like forever comp, forever chemicals, PFAS compounds, there was never any evolutionary pressure for nature to develop, to evolve proteins, to break down such compounds. And, uh, so there's a lot, so, so there are many problems we face today. And this is sort of a general theme in, in places where nature was already trying to optimize heavily to solve a certain problem. There's not really a need for us to design new proteins, but in areas where, um, either because we live longer, so things like neurodegeneration are more of a problem or because we're putting new things in the environment like plastic or PFAS compounds, uh, those are the places where there's a huge opportunity for protein design because we already know from nature that, uh, proteins can solve a really can solve almost any problem. And so for protein design, it's the problems that nature didn't have to deal with because, you know, humans didn't, you know, people didn't live as long or because, uh, they hadn't polluted or heated up the planet, for example. Well, it seems like that work is obviously very necessary and I'm interested to also hear what other sorts of uses have revealed themselves in the years, um, since you joined us. It seems like sustainability, of course, health, medicine, what other areas, um, have been sort of surprising places that you've been able to, to find protein design can be helpful. Yeah. Well, one area that's related to sustainability is, um, that that's also become more pressing since 2019, is trying to design to make crop plants more thermo tolerant because, you know, temperatures are rising and it's very important that major crops like rice be able to grow and, um, uh, thrive at, at higher temperatures. And so one of the things that we've become very good at with protein design is to make proteins more stable. So we're excited now about applying those methods to, to problems like, uh, uh, making plants, um, uh, thrive at higher temperatures. In other, other areas are, um, in technology, we're very excited about, um, sensing and sort of intrigued by, you know, the ability of a human or a dog to smell and distinguish between many, many different compounds. So that the way that a dog does that with, um, is with, um, proteins, uh, receptors in its nose that can respond differentially to different compounds that are in the environment. And we can, we're now designing, uh, synthetic proteins that can respond to many, many different molecules. And, uh, so we're very excited about building things like an artificial nose, um, towards that end. And, um, for more general technology applications, we're learning how to interface proteins with, um, electronics, because then you can have a more direct coupling of a readout from a design protein to something that we can, um, quickly, um, read out on a cell phone, for example. And one example of that is, um, our, we're designing, um, proteins to sense, um, uh, compounds in the environment that are embedded, would be embedded directly in silicon nitride chips. And that's again, a problem that nature never had to deal with because, uh, proteins in nature were never interfacing with, you know, with electronic devices. Um, and we've made quite a bit of progress there. How do we ensure and, and, and what role do you see yourself playing in ensuring that, that what you're creating is accessible and available to a wide range of people? Yes. I think we, we start off on, um, with the methods we develop, we make those, uh, widely available. And, um, so that's start, we're particularly interested in enabling protein design in, in countries where there isn't as much, um, you know, advanced infrastructure for, you know, large scale drug screening, for example, because with protein design really cuts down the cost in making, uh, proteins that to deal with, uh, with, uh, with a challenge. For example, if you are a farmer in, um, in Africa, for example, and you're dealing with a new type of, of pest, say a fungus or an insect, um, we want to empower scientists and researchers in the country that has the problem to actually use our methods to develop, uh, their, their own solutions to those problems, which may be pretty local. Um, as things, um, as things, uh, come out of here, uh, the, um, we, um, well, we work, uh, one of the things that we do is we, when we license, um, uh, things that we have created, uh, to, um, to other entities, we always require that, uh, there be a, um, uh, carve out for, um, for global health applications. And that's something that the Gates Foundation is really, um, uh, pioneered. And so we try in every way we can to make sure that things we develop will be as broadly applicable as, as possible. Um, I think, you know, it's a challenge currently that goes well beyond protein design to, um, to, to motivate the world, to put the resources into ways of combating things like, you know, global warming and, um, uh, and, you know, the accumulating plastic. Um, it's, there's been a lot of talk, but it's going to take a lot of resources too, and we can't really control that. I'll give you an example of something that I am disappointed in during the pandemic. There was a lot of talk about how we needed better methods for rapidly creating ways to deal with pandemic, uh, viruses. Um, and, uh, and immediately after the pandemic or during, during the end of the pandemic, there were even some initiatives started to work on sort of faster approaches to, um, develop, uh, ways to protect against new pathogens if they emerged. But within six months of the pandemic ending, the world kind of forgot about it. So, um, the, the, um, so there are, there are some issues with the, sort of the, the, the, the, the way that the, the pool from the outside world in different areas is different depending on how much profit can be made, which is a little bit too bad. Mm. Sort of keeping people's attention focused on this is, uh, the, seems like the, the challenge of, of, of your work. Um, well, I think this is also a really nice segue to talking about the Nobel Prize, which is a great way to sort of put focus on this incredible work you're doing. Uh, so late last year, of course you get word, uh, that you've been awarded, uh, the Nobel Prize in Chemistry. Can you tell us about how you received this news and what that, um, experience was like? Yeah, it was very exciting and, um, uh, got the phone call. And then I think what I remember, uh, the most that day was, um, uh, when I came into, um, the lab and we had this huge party here and, um, that was really, really special. And then in Stockholm that, um, I think we, um, uh, I, I really felt that the work that the prize was a celebration of the work of, you know, the many people, the many brilliant students and postdocs and others I've had over the years who, uh, contribute to all the things that, you know, ended up going into the Nobel Prize winning work. And I actually talked about in my talk. And so I want to, uh, we, we asked people, uh, to former colleagues to come. And then I think we actually set a record. There were 185 people who, um, uh, who came, you know, uh, who former colleagues, former graduate students and postdocs, mostly former, almost all actually former trainees at one level or another at different times. And, um, uh, that was really special. I think we, we, we set a record and this really hit home to me. Um, when I, uh, gave my talk, uh, my Nobel speech, and then, uh, you know, when you're up there on stage, you can't really see who's on the audience. And then when the late lights came on, I saw that there was a quarter of the room, the whole, there was this whole big section, which were all former graduates and postdocs from, you know, many years back up until the current. And that was really, really special. And, um, I think it made it clear to me, or I guess I'd always known it, but I was really impressed upon the fact that, you know, for me really, you know, the scientific advances are one thing, but really training and mentoring all these amazing people are going on to do all these really amazing things is really, I think that's, that's the most important thing I do. And, um, uh, and so anyway, that, that, and then in Stockholm, we had a number of really fantastic parties with all these 185 people, including, you know, family and extended family. And it was, it was really wonderful. That's great. Um, well, David, I don't think you'll be surprised to know that we're getting tons of questions, uh, from the member community. And so I want to start to bring some of those to you, uh, to integrate into the conversation. Uh, we have one from Les B, uh, who asks, how do you see technologies like CRISPR and gene editing intersecting with your AI driven protein design? Could combining these tools accelerate the development of targeted therapies or sustainable biological solutions? Yeah, it was a wonderful, it's a great question. Um, yesterday I had a very long conversation with the world's experts at CRISPR, um, uh, in, uh, Jennifer Doudna's Institute at Berkeley, and we're going to, we're going to join forces just as, um, uh, uh, uh, suggested by that question. Um, for the problem of sustainable agriculture, we can design new proteins, but then they have to get into the plants. And, um, so we can improve, say, plant thermal tolerance, um, uh, we can, we can design proteins that in principle could implant, uh, improve plant thermal tolerance or, or, um, uh, protect against, uh, uh, uh, uh, funguses like wheat blight, but we need to get the proteins in and, uh, CRISPR and, uh, the IGI are really experts at that. So I think this is a perfect time to partner in many areas. Yes. Lachlan F. Um, is curious about the pros and cons of your scientific work, um, being either a completely open source, like open fold or proprietary like alpha fold. Um, and can both of these options accelerate progress and, and possibly maybe limit public benefits as well? Yeah, I'm a big believer in making everything open. And, uh, I think you, you know, we find that people build on what we create and, uh, also it's, you know, as scientists, really the, one of the goals is to really have broad impact. And the more you share, uh, the more impact there is. And I think that's also held for the, um, uh, the, the people leaving my group to, uh, who are starting their own group. We stayed there now, now over a hundred former graduates and postdocs who left my group to start their own labs in the U S and around the world. And we've, um, I've encouraged them to keep working in this area. And so now we have, um, this amazing community. Uh, we have yearly meetings where everyone's working together and everyone, everyone meets and, and shares what they've done. And, uh, things just have moved really, really quickly. So I think in general have having everything open is, um, is, is, is, is really a big advantage. Now, if you're at a company, there's a, that has to be moderated by the fact that company needs ultimately to make money. And so there are different constraints, but at a public institution like the university of Washington, or really in any university, I think, uh, making everything open is, is the right way to go. And we just, we've seen that really from the beginning, uh, we made, well, even for our earlier generation, non AI software called Rosetta, we made it widely available and that just created this whole community around it, which has really been wonderful. Hmm. I mean, and that's, and that speaks to something that, um, we're seeing a lot, uh, from the community, which are just questions around how to ensure, um, that the proteins you're designing. And just as we think about just AI and technological acceleration in general, that it remains in the best interest, interests of humanity, um, global peace, kindness, how do we safeguard against, um, misuse, uh, in a world where some people are, you know, there are some bad actors and looking to use things for it. Yeah. That's a, that's a very good question. And we are, um, let me first give you an overall framing for it. And then I'll tell you about specific actions we're taking. The things that are really dangerous, the types of pathogens are like viruses, like the 1918 Spanish flu or Ebola, um, which obviously can cause death and destruction on a huge, huge scale. Those are extremely complex, um, uh, um, things, um, and because they have to do many, many, many different things. And even, um, even with the advances in protein design is still very challenging to, uh, to make a protein that, that has one function, whereas a virus has to do many, many things. And so if you want to cause death and destruction on a large scale, you don't really, the design methods don't help you. You just go to nature and you can, you can, you know, make remake the 1918 Spanish flu. Um, and so what, what the protein design methods are really good at today is blocking, um, uh, blocking, uh, for example, viruses, um, either, uh, you know, pandemic viruses or, or new viruses. Um, uh, the idea of making a synthetic virus is still, well, first of all, there's not really any reason to do it because viruses, I told, I said at the beginning that, um, that design is very powerful where there hasn't already been extensive evolutionary optimization. So for viruses, there's been extensive optimization for really rapid spreading and, uh, infection. So, um, the, the first point is that the, if you want to bad for bad actors, there already are many, many bad things all around, all the way around, ranging from, you know, things like botulinum toxin to major viruses. And I really think the primary role of protein design will be to protect against these threats and new threats. But of course it is possible that, um, a bad actor really has their mindset to try and create something new and dangerous. So we had a workshop at the university of Washington, um, uh, a year and a half ago, uh, that was, um, uh, that we convened together with the national security council, um, in the white house. And we, uh, convened a panel of experts, uh, to really think about this problem. And our conclusion was, first of all, that the current generation of design methods did not pose a threat compared to the huge threats that already are present in nature. Um, but second, that the way to control things and to make sure, and is, was to, was through the, the synthetic gene manufacturing step where you go from the computer to the real world. And as I said earlier, that's a key step in this process. And that's the one where having like, um, gating and control, or at least logging, we, we concluded will be really, really important. And so we are urging DNA synthesis companies to keep track of everything that's, that they're making. So that in the event, uh, that there is a suspicious outbreak somewhere in the world, you can quickly track where the DNA came from if it was synthetic rather than, um, being of natural origin. Excuse me. That's great. It seems like there is, um, some thought to how to create this responsibly as we're, and it feels like a really, a brave new world. Um, and that there, you believe that there are more benefits, um, to pursuing this than the risks that are presented. Right. And that's very clear so far. I mean, the, um, I mean, there's huge numbers of beneficial things have been done. I mean, even in the area of pathogenic disease, you know, I described the vaccines, the antivirals. And, um, uh, so the, um, yeah, I think the upsides far outweigh the downside. The other thing we're doing is we are setting up sort of a, um, a committee that's, that's reviewing new software as it's created to make sure that, um, to, to vet the relief, to make sure that there aren't, um, unforeseen consequences. I would say overall, the, um, the risks, if you think about AI and biology compared to AI generally, I think the immediate risk from AI more generally in the form of, of computer viruses, you know, things that you don't have to instantiate in the real world, but that work in software, um, we're already seeing, uh, problems there. And then of course, we're seeing more broader problems, having, you know, with, with employment and AI replacing people. I think those are probably the places where AI is going to be really a problem, a negative, um, rather than AI in the biological realm. Well, when you think about the future, um, and sort of where this is headed, uh, we, we have a question from Nicholas, uh, Dean, uh, if, if you see a future where computational design of proteins could potentially displace approaches like evolution or will it never reach those heights? No, I think, I think that, um, already with problems like, like antibody design, antibody generation, antibodies are really kind of the pharmaceutical industry. Um, uh, antibodies have been a mainstay and generally the way that antibodies are developed now, it's either from, um, um, sort of pulling antibodies out of an individual or immunizing an animal or screening through very, very large collection of rent, very large random libraries for an antibody that has the right property. I think those will be displaced by design because you can be much more intentional and design an antibody that not only binds the right place on your target to have the effect you want, but also has all the properties needed to really be developed as a drug. So I think more and more, we're going to see random selection, random sort of library screening methods, which are kind of emulating evolution where, you know, evolution is also all random mutation generation and selection. We're going to see that replaced by, um, uh, by intentional protein design. And that harks back to what I said in my Ted talk where, um, uh, where I, I sort of made the point that, um, you know, human technology outside of biology, um, uh, you know, you start from first principles. If you want to build a bridge across a river or a flying machine, um, you don't go looking for a log that has the right shape. Um, but you actually construct it for first from first principles. And so I think now that's becoming more and more reality throughout sort of bio, um, biotechnology. And when you, you think about your, your work, um, in protein development, you know, so we work so much of what this conversation has been focused on the things you said in 2019. And, um, when you gave your talk, what do you, what do you foresee, you know, in six years from now, um, when we speak again, uh, where do you think things will be? What do you, will you be focused on? I think predicting the future of science is far harder than predicting the structure of a protein or predicting the weather tomorrow. So I think it's, I think predicting how fast, uh, science will progress is a famously impossible challenge. Um, but I can see broadly speaking six years from now, I expect to see, um, uh, medicines of many more medicines approved for use in humans. I expect to see, you know, solutions to major problems and really across the areas that, um, uh, that I've described. And then I also anticipate that we'll be working in the field, we'll be working on problems that I haven't even mentioned. I haven't mentioned today because I haven't thought of them. So, uh, things are changing so fast that, um, I really, what I really hope most is, you know, we're solving problems I can't even conceive of now. That's wonderful. Um, well, David, I feel like this has been a wonderful, um, conversation and, uh, just really grateful to you for, for joining us. We have had so many member questions, so thank you to the members as well. Um, thank you so much, David, for sharing all of this. Yeah. Well, thanks. Thanks to everyone who's listening and contributing questions. It's been great. Thanks to Ted for organizing this. And I just want to thank, again, all the amazing students and postdocs and others I'm working with now and in the past who really made all this work possible and who've actually done all the work really. That was David Baker in conversation with Whitney Pennington Rogers at a Ted membership event. This conversation took place on June 11th, 2025. And to watch David's 2019 Ted talk, just visit ted.com. If you're curious about Ted's curation, find out more at ted.com slash curation guidelines. And that's it for today's show. Ted Talks Daily is part of the Ted Audio Collective. This episode was produced and edited by our team, Martha Estefanos, Oliver Friedman, Brian Green, Lucy Little, Alejandra Salazar, and Tonsika Sarmarnivon. It was mixed by Christopher Faze-Bogan, additional support from Emma Taubner and Daniela Ballarezzo. I'm Elise Hugh. I'll be back tomorrow with a fresh idea for your feed. Thanks for listening. Scientists at Alphabet's moonshot factory tackle big, serious global problems, but their leader likes to show up on rollerblades, sometimes dressed as Gandalf. It's also my way of trying to disarm people and remind them humor and silliness are very close to the wellsprings of creativity. How Astro Teller leads scientists to their breakthroughs. That's next time on the Ted Radio Hour podcast from NPR. Subscribe or listen to the Ted Radio Hour wherever you get your podcasts.